# SSF-LSTM: Prediction of Protein B-factor Profiles Based on Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory Network

# Introduction
The B-factor of proteins is an important measure that reflects the thermal motion of atoms during X-ray diffraction, indicating the flexibility and dynamics of proteins. This project implements the SSF-LSTM model described in the paper "Prediction of Protein B-factor Profiles based on Bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory Network", which integrates both sequence-based and structure-based features to predict protein B-factor profiles using deep learning techniques.

SSF-LSTM is a method based on bidirectional Long Short-Term Memory (biLSTM) networks designed to improve the accuracy of B-factor predictions by combining sequence and structural information. Compared to methods relying solely on sequence data or traditional approaches, SSF-LSTM demonstrates higher prediction accuracy across multiple test datasets.

# Feature Extraction
The SSF-LSTM model incorporates four types of sequence features and five types of structural features:

Sequence Features: Amino acid residue encoding, physicochemical properties, PSI-BLAST profile, and HHBlits profile.

Structural Features: Crystal resolution, R-value, packing density of alpha carbon atoms, torsion angles (Φ and Ψ), and residue solvent accessible area.

# Requirements
Before running SSF-LSTM, ensure your environment meets the following requirements:

Python - 3.6.0

tensorflow - 2.1.0

numpy - 1.19.5

scipy - 1.4.1

matplotlib - 3.3.4

biopython - 1.79

# Running SSF-LSTM
Predict and plot for a single sequence: 

python3 pre.py --pdbID 7DTL --chainID A

Predict on test set containing 650 sequences: 

python3 pre.py

# Usage
We have provided data for two example proteins. You can directly run the code to predict their B-factors. If you wish to predict the B-factors of other proteins, please prepare the following files:

PDB file of the protein structure.

PSSM file generated by PSI-BLAST.

HMM file generated by HHBlits.

TXT file grented by STRIDE.

Please place these files in the files/ directory, then follow the previous instructions to run the tool and predict protein B-factors.
